when society collapses where do you
imagine yourself when social order
starts to crumble what side of the line
will you be on in 2008's blindness we
get to watch as a whole city falls into
darkness here's the spoiler alert while
this is just my opinion i recommend you
watch this film for yourself link to the
film is in the description as the hustle
and bustle of the town flows without
missing a beat one car disrupts the flow
by sitting still at a red light that has
turned green as the driver sits there
bystanders walk over to check if he's
okay i'm blind that's one hell of a
predicament to suddenly go blind i'd say
he's handling it quite calmly as waiting
traffic doesn't wait too patiently one
of the bystanders agrees to drive the
man back to his house for him pretty
self-explanatory what's happening so far
people are going blind randomly for no
reason at all or so we're supposed to
think for now as the man comes to a stop
the blind man believes that he has
reached his house
well if that isn't some of the grimiest
behavior he couldn't even drop him off
at the sidewalk hopefully this guy
really actually isn't too far away from
where he told the guy to take him as the
man begins to spin around while calling
for help cars continue to whiz by him
while beeping for him to get out of the
way just as he starts to lose his
composure why was this worry necessary
to add he just gave this blind guy an
aneurysm just to park the car he could
have just told him what he was doing
nice of him to come back though as the
man takes a blind man into his apartment
he starts walking around as though he's
about to make himself at home the blind
man quickly tries to get him out and he
shuts the door behind him you're blind
why are you even trying to look through
as the blind man's wife gets home she
notices a mess and her blind husband is
lying down after he explains what's
going on she begins to panic and she
rushes him to the eye specialist she
would have taken her husband's car but
it turns out that the man that dropped
him off made off with the car after the
doctor runs tests he concludes that this
is like nothing he's ever seen before so
he refers him to the hospital later on
in the evening we come across the man
that stole the car and as he runs from
police he is suddenly struck with
blindness
okay i take back what i said before this
is the worst time to go blind the next
morning the doctor's wife greets her
husband only to find out some startling
information julianne moore who's known
for her signature red hair actually died
at blonde for this role since it was so
abnormal to see her like this she got a
lot of unnecessary attention for it
which made her uncomfortable i can't see
now it's getting intriguing is the
blindness contagious it's almost like
it's passed on through a selective
process as people continue to go blind
all throughout the city the eye doctor
contacts a colleague at the hospital he
reaches out to the ministry of health
who decides to quarantine the eye doctor
and round up anyone he'd been in contact
with as they take the eye doctor his
wife forces herself in the ambulance
with him because i've i've just gone
blind
this woman is tenacious at least she
knows her way around a loophole to
support her husband once they arrive at
the quarantine facility they are
accompanied by other people who are
ailing from the same blindness as a
precaution the eye doctor and his wife
decided it would be smarter to have
everyone else think she's blind as well
fun fact there are no name characters
throughout the movie each person is
simply named by a descriptive word or
what they do as newcomers arrive we see
some pretty familiar faces once the
blind guy and the thief find out they're
in the same room together things don't
stay as smooth as everyone would have
hoped as the next day begins new
quarantined people are brought into the
ward including the first blind guy's
wife as the guards begin to leave the
eye doctor and his wife try to ask for
antibiotics for the thief who injured
his leg the day before
this isn't a peaceful safety precaution
anymore this took a turn for the worst
and i feel like the eye doctor is the
last person you'd really want to
dissuade from helping others as the eye
doctor's wife watches the blind help the
blind literally she starts to feel more
sorry for them and she tries to reach
out to someone on the emergency line
that their predicament needs some
assistance as the numbers proceed to
grow the eye doctor's wife takes it upon
herself to help everyone i have a
feeling that this is going to wear on
her and once a certain someone finds out
this won't end well i've got a feeling
that the thief won't be too happy as
conditions deteriorate even further
morale follows suit until the eye
doctor's wife discovers the man with an
eye patch he happened to bring his radio
when he got brought in so the other
residents asked to hear some music
the speaker we hear coming over his
radio is actually speaking portuguese
which is actually the language the
original novel was written in after he
gets brought in everyone asks for
updates he may have heard he tells him
that everyone outside the quarantine
facility has shut down and almost
everyone is blind now later that night
guards come in to take people out of the
facility they heard the blind like
cattle to the slaughter excuse me sir
we all saw this coming but somehow i
didn't expect it to hit like it did
watching helpless people mow each other
over not because they're being cruel
they legitimately just can't help it the
next day the guards threw a shovel over
the fence for the eye doctor's wife to
collect as they give her directions to
where it is she plays along as if she's
blind when she realizes they're screwing
with her she collects a shovel on her
own and gives them a piece of her mind
did you see that she's my favorite
character for sure she's just about had
it at this point and after seeing the
conditions in which she's living in just
to help people who can blame her soon
after the eye doctor goes to ward 3 to
try and negotiate some changes that need
to be made but when he makes his
suggestions he's not welcomed like he
had hoped by the bartender there i
declare myself the king of war 3. well
this can't be good anarchy in ward 3.
later on the doctor's wife goes to check
on the thief who is feverish from his
infected wound
called it i knew he would catch her
and he's not going to be a problem
anymore i love how he presented a huge
problem only to solve it by itself
within seconds now that we've gotten rid
of one problem another is shown up the
bartender appears over the pa system
where he states that anyone who wants to
eat has to pay from now on as the
members of ward 1 put together their
valuables the bartender decides that
it's only worth enough for half of the
people there after the eye doctor blames
himself for not standing up to the
bartender more he is comforted by the
call girl who tries to reassure him well
this took a turn also i feel like
risking losing the one person they can
see as an ally isn't the smartest of
decisions in a world full of blind
people
oh damn how is she so calm she could
easily make life even more of a living
hell but she's probably too smart for
that once the valuables run out ward 3
decide they want the other wards to
bring them their women in exchange for
food after much deliberation ward 1
gathers 9 volunteer women to go for the
sake of the group after a very rowdy
night the worst of the deal is over
this film is way more serious and dark
compared to what it originally expected
they can't take much more of this though
can they the next day the women for ward
2 are brought to the men of ward 3.
while they are preoccupied the eye
doctor's wife sneaks in and around all
of the blind men until she gets the
bartender yes this movie gives us some
fulfilling vengeance moments for sure
this is just one of those moments that
you love to see play out exactly how you
had hoped one of your man who died
i love how she had to throw in that last
bit it's literally just rubbing it into
a blind guy she's just had enough as
ward 1 prepares for a retaliation they
gather volunteers for people who are
tired of dealing with ward 3. once the
volunteers gather they try to count
their
of numbers this is how you know things
are about to go down i'm weirdly excited
as they talk about a plan one of the
women sneaks over to ward 3 where she
sets it on fire as they all burn ward 1
makes a break for outside where the
doctor's wife leads a group of people
around town as they walk around town
they can see how far the devastation has
spread all of society has crumbled and
blind people roam the streets eventually
the doctor and his wife set out to find
supplies once they find an old
supermarket she goes in and leaves him
at the door
i feel like the fallout society happened
at a record pace even for films even
though it was a terrible experience it
seems to have helped strengthen the bond
between the doctor and his wife as the
eye doctor leaves her so he can collect
clothes she runs into another new friend
leave it to man's best friend to always
find a place with humans even in a not
so distant future where mankind has
failed everyone the doctor's wife finds
a local church to take shelter in and
she sees that people really haven't
changed deep down once the doctor
returns with the clothes he found before
the three of them depart to make their
way back to the rest of the group how
old we are that we have a little
decision
and of course she simply decides that
they should go home to their house when
in doubt always choose home once they
make their way back to the doctor's
house they all make themselves at home
and they feel more like a family than
we've ever seen any of them be as they
continue to help each other it reminds
us that not all humanity is lost
throughout everything they've been
through later that night the man with
the eye patch and the call girl sit and
discuss their future together is the one
listening as touching as this moment is
i still stand by the fact that they are
all terrible for using this man's
blindness like that don't lie to the man
make yourself known as the night
continues relationships that have been
put through the ringer are seen being
mended by the peace of being free a
feast is enjoyed where everyone is
thankful for having each other then we
cut to
are you sure about that the next morning
everyone begins to gather for their
morning coffee and figure out what's
next
you mean to tell me all he needed was
the scent of fresh coffee to let him see
again i doubt that that's all it was but
his sight comes back as suddenly as it
was gone they never explained what takes
everyone's side away to begin with or
exactly what brings it back but all in
all it was a very intriguing and raw
film the way they showed the progression
of how humanity is thrown to the wayside
in the midst of chaos is fantastic let
me know what you thought of the film in
the comments below and go ahead and
comment what i should watch next don't
forget to like the video and subscribe
if you'd like to see more videos like
this one i'll see you in the next one
you